# Experiment-data-Analysis
The Stroop effect is a psychological phenomenon in which the reaction time is slower to comprehend incongruent versus congruent stimuli. A simple test for this is timing how long a participant takes to name the colour of a printed word when it is coloured the same (such as “red” written in red font) compared to when the word and colour differ. Another interesting factor in this reaction time is the physical position the participant is in while taking the Stroop Test (sitting or standing). There is some evidence that standing enhances attention, reducing reaction time (Rosenbaum, et al., 2017). We used data from this study and independently tested this conclusion in a 2x2 factorial model. We analysed normality, equality of variance and the effects of different combinations of congruency and posture. We found only congruency to be significant in determining reaction times. However, the p-value for posture was still relatively low and standing had a slightly lower sample mean reaction time than sitting. However, the overall lack of significant difference we found aligns with recent, larger studies that found posture to be less significant to Stroop reaction times than was previously thought (Caron et al., 2020; Straub et al., 2022). However, the low R-squared in our model suggests that there are more variables at play in determining reaction time than congruency and posture. Thus, in the future, other factors to be explored in the Stroop reaction times include individual variation, age and health.
